docs/sysbench.md, before:

# Sybench

[Sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench) provides benchmarking capabilities for Linux. sysbench supports testing CPU, memory, file I/O, mutex performance, and even MySQL benchmarking

## Running Sysbench

Given that you followed instructions to deploy operator,
you can modify [cr.yaml](../config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml)

The optional argument **runtime_class** can be set to specify an
optional runtime_class to the podSpec runtimeClassName.  This is
primarily intended for Kata containers.

The option **annotations** can be set to apply the specified
annotations to the pod metadata.

The `pin_node` parameter allows to place the sysbench pod 
on a specific node, using the `hostname` label.

Note: please ensure you set 0 for other workloads if editing the
[cr.yaml](../config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml) file otherwise

your resource file may look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: ripsaw.cloudbulldozer.io/v1alpha1
kind: Benchmark
metadata:
  name: sysbench-benchmark
  namespace: benchmark-operator
spec:
  workload:
    name: sysbench
    args:
      enabled: true
      #kind: vm
      # If you want to run this as a VM uncomment the above
      #pin_node: "worker-0.mylab.example.com"
      tests:
      - name: cpu
        parameters:
          cpu-max-prime: 2000
      - name: fileio
        parameters:
          file-test-mode: rndrw
```

Name here refers to testname and can be cpu or fileio or memory etc and the parameters are the parametes for the particular test.
You can find more information at [sysbench documentation](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#general-syntax) and online.

Once done creating/editing the resource file, you can run it by:

```bash
# kubectl apply -f config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml # if edited the original one
# kubectl apply -f <path_to_file> # if created a new cr file
```

Deploying the above(running cpu) would result in

```bash
# kubectl get pods
NAME                                 READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
benchmark-operator-6bfccf9dc-cfzvc   1/1     Running             0          7m18s
example-benchmark-sysbench-9cvff         0/1     ContainerCreating   0          51s
```

Note: The pods are set to delete after 600s from the job completion. This can be
edited by updating `ttlSecondsAfterFinished` in the job spec to 0.

You can look at results by using logs functionality - `kubectl logs <client>`,
it should look like:

```bash
# kubectl logs -f example-benchmark-sysbench-9cvff
WARNING: the --test option is deprecated. You can pass a script name or path on the command line without any options.
sysbench 1.0.9 (using system LuaJIT 2.0.4)

Running the test with following options:
Number of threads: 1
Initializing random number generator from current time


Prime numbers limit: 2000

Initializing worker threads...

Threads started!

CPU speed:
    events per second:  5503.35

General statistics:
    total time:                          10.0003s
    total number of events:              55067

Latency (ms):
         min:                                  0.11
         avg:                                  0.18
         max:                                 78.79
         95th percentile:                      0.31
         sum:                               9958.03

Threads fairness:
    events (avg/stddev):           55067.0000/0.00
    execution time (avg/stddev):   9.9580/0.00
```

Commit message:

Added storageclass support to sysbench, if storageclass is not defined, previous behavior is default (#799)
Added support for prepare, run, and cleanup phase options in sysbench fileio

docs/sysbench.md, after:

# Sybench

[Sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench) provides benchmarking capabilities for Linux. sysbench supports testing CPU, memory, file I/O, mutex performance, and even MySQL benchmarking

## Running Sysbench

Given that you followed instructions to deploy operator,
you can modify [cr.yaml](../config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml)

The optional argument **runtime_class** can be set to specify an
optional runtime_class to the podSpec runtimeClassName.  This is
primarily intended for Kata containers.

The option **annotations** can be set to apply the specified
annotations to the pod metadata.

The `pin_node` parameter allows to place the sysbench pod 
on a specific node, using the `hostname` label.

The `storageclass` and `storagesize` options can be set to have sysbench run on a particular StorageClass volume.
If `storageclass` is not provided, sysbench runs on an `emptyDir` volume by default.

With the `fileio` test, you can define parameters for the `prepare`, `run` and `cleanup` steps
independently, using `prepare_parameters`, `run_parameters`, and `cleanup_parameters` respectively.
The `parameters` option is a global set of parameters each step inherits, but can be overriden.  To
disable a value from `parameters` within `<prepare/run/cleanup>_parameters`, simply set the value to
`null`.

Note: please ensure you set 0 for other workloads if editing the
[cr.yaml](../config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml) file otherwise

your resource file may look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: ripsaw.cloudbulldozer.io/v1alpha1
kind: Benchmark
metadata:
  name: sysbench-benchmark
  namespace: benchmark-operator
spec:
  workload:
    name: sysbench
    args:
      enabled: true
      #kind: vm
      # If you want to run this as a VM uncomment the above
      #pin_node: "worker-0.mylab.example.com"
      #storageclass: ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd
      #storagesize: 200Gi
      tests:
      - name: cpu
        parameters:
          cpu-max-prime: 2000
      - name: fileio
        parameters:
          file-test-mode: rndrw
        # This removes the file-test-mode parameter during the cleanup step
        # Since run_parameters and prepare_parameters are not defined, they use file-test-mode: rndrw
        #cleanup_parameters:
          #file-test-mode: null
```

Name here refers to testname and can be cpu or fileio or memory etc and the parameters are the parametes for the particular test.
You can find more information at [sysbench documentation](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#general-syntax) and online.

Once done creating/editing the resource file, you can run it by:

```bash
# kubectl apply -f config/samples/sysbench/cr.yaml # if edited the original one
# kubectl apply -f <path_to_file> # if created a new cr file
```

Deploying the above(running cpu) would result in

```bash
# kubectl get pods
NAME                                 READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
benchmark-operator-6bfccf9dc-cfzvc   1/1     Running             0          7m18s
example-benchmark-sysbench-9cvff         0/1     ContainerCreating   0          51s
```

Note: The pods are set to delete after 600s from the job completion. This can be
edited by updating `ttlSecondsAfterFinished` in the job spec to 0.

You can look at results by using logs functionality - `kubectl logs <client>`,
it should look like:

```bash
# kubectl logs -f example-benchmark-sysbench-9cvff
WARNING: the --test option is deprecated. You can pass a script name or path on the command line without any options.
sysbench 1.0.9 (using system LuaJIT 2.0.4)

Running the test with following options:
Number of threads: 1
Initializing random number generator from current time


Prime numbers limit: 2000

Initializing worker threads...

Threads started!

CPU speed:
    events per second:  5503.35

General statistics:
    total time:                          10.0003s
    total number of events:              55067

Latency (ms):
         min:                                  0.11
         avg:                                  0.18
         max:                                 78.79
         95th percentile:                      0.31
         sum:                               9958.03

Threads fairness:
    events (avg/stddev):           55067.0000/0.00
    execution time (avg/stddev):   9.9580/0.00
```
