docs/uperf.md, before:

# Uperf

[Uperf](http://uperf.org/) is a network performance tool

## Running UPerf

Given that you followed instructions to deploy operator,
you can modify [cr.yaml](../config/samples/uperf/cr.yaml)

```yaml
apiVersion: ripsaw.cloudbulldozer.io/v1alpha1
kind: Benchmark
metadata:
  name: uperf-benchmark
  namespace: benchmark-operator
spec:
  elasticsearch:
    url: "http://es-instance.com:9200"
  workload:
    name: uperf
    args:
      client_resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
      server_resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
      serviceip: false
      runtime_class: class_name
      hostnetwork: false
      networkpolicy: false
      pin: false
      kind: pod
      pin_server: "node-0"
      pin_client: "node-1"
      pair: 1
      multus:
        enabled: false
      samples: 1
      test_types:
        - stream
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 16384
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```

 By default, the uperf server and client pods will be preferably scheduled on different nodes, thanks to a `podAntiAffinity` rule. In scenarios with more than 1 pair, all clients and servers will be scheduled to the same node. 

`client_resources` and `server_resources` will create uperf client's and server's containers with the given k8s compute resources respectively [k8s resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/)

`serviceip` will place the uperf server behind a K8s [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)

`runtime_class` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will apply the runtime_class to the podSpec runtimeClassName.

*Note:* `runtime_class` has only been tested with Kata containers. Only include `runtime_class` if using Kata containers.

`annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the pods' metadata.

`server_annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the server pods' metadata.

`client_annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the client pods' metadata.

`hostnetwork` will test the performance of the node the pod will run on.

`networkpolicy` will create a simple networkpolicy for ingress

`pin` will allow the benchmark runner place nodes on specific nodes, using the `hostname` label.

`pin_server` what node to pin the server pod to.

`pin_client` what node to pin the client pod to.

`pair` how many instances of uperf client-server pairs. `pair` is applicable for `pin: true` only.

`multus[1]` Configure our pods to use multus.

`samples` how many times to run the tests. For example

[1] https://github.com/intel/multus-cni/tree/master/examples

```yaml
      samples: 3
      density_range: [1,1]
      test_types:
        - stream
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 1024
        - 16384
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```

Will run `stream` w/ `tcp` and message size `1024` three times and
`stream` w/ `tcp` and message size `16384` three times. This will help us
gain confidence in our results.

### Asymmetric Request-Response

For the request-response (rr) `test_type`, it is possible to provide the `sizes` values as a
list of two values where the first value is the write size and the second value is the read
size.

For example:
```yaml
      samples: 3
      density_range: [1,1]
      test_types:
        - rr
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 1024
        - [8192, 4096]
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```
Will run the `rr` test with `tcp`, first with a symmectic size of `1024` and then with an
asymmetric size of `8192` write and `4096` read.

### Multus

If the user desires to test with Multus, use the below Multus `NetworkAtachmentDefinition`
as an example:

```
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: macvlan-range-0
spec:
  config: '{
            "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
            "type": "macvlan",
            "master": "eno1",
            "mode": "bridge",
            "ipam": {
                    "type": "host-local",
                    "ranges": [
                    [ {
                       "subnet": "11.10.0.0/16",
                       "rangeStart": "11.10.1.20",
                       "rangeEnd": "11.10.3.50"
                    } ] ]
            }
        }'
---
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: macvlan-range-1
spec:
  config: '{
            "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
            "type": "macvlan",
            "master": "eno1",
            "mode": "bridge",
            "ipam": {
                    "type": "host-local",
                    "ranges": [
                    [ {
                       "subnet": "11.10.0.0/16",
                       "rangeStart": "11.10.1.60",
                       "rangeEnd": "11.10.3.90"
                    } ] ]
            }
        }'
```

This will use the same IP subnet across nodes, but not overlap
IP addresses.

To enable Multus in Ripsaw, here is the relevant config.

```
      ...
      multus:
        enabled: true
        client: "macvlan-range-0"
        server: "macvlan-range-1"
      pin: true
      pin_server: "openshift-master-0.dev4.kni.lab.eng.bos.redhat.com"
      pin_client: "openshift-master-1.dev4.kni.lab.eng.bos.redhat.com"
      ...

```
### Advanced Service types

Benchmark operator now also supports different service types, it can create `NodePort` and `LoadBalancer` (only metallb) 
type services along with the current default `ClusterIP` type.

No pre-requisites needed for `NodePort` service, as long as the ports used by uperf(30000 to 30012) are allowed at the node level, 
which is the cluster default.

```
NAME                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S) 
uperf-service-np    NodePort       172.30.177.81   <none>            30000:31955/TCP,30001:31935/TCP,30002:31942/TCP,30001:31935/UDP,30002:31942/UDP
```

For `metallb` type, there are certain pre-requisites, 
1.  Installation of [MetalLB](https://metallb.universe.tf/) operator and CRD
2.  Configuration of [BGP](https://github.com/metallb/metallb-operator#create-a-bgp-peer-object)
3.  Configuration of [AddressPool](https://github.com/metallb/metallb-operator#create-an-address-pool-object) for lb service
4.  Configuration of extenal router for BGP

`metallb` type creates 2 services per benchmark CR (for each protocol, `tcp` and `udp`) and they will share the external IP like below

```
NAME                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S) 
uperf-service-lb    LoadBalancer   172.30.177.99   192.168.216.102   30000:30976/TCP,30001:30652/TCP,30002:30099/TCP 
uperf-service-lb2   LoadBalancer   172.30.126.71   192.168.216.102   30001:31312/UDP,30002:30776/UDP 
```

#### CR file inputs

##### For NodePort
```yaml
      ...
      name: uperf
      serviceip: true
      servicetype: "nodeport"
      ...
```

##### For MetalLB
`metallb`
```yaml
      ...
      name: uperf
      serviceip: true
      servicetype: "metallb"
      metallb:
        addresspool: "addresspool-l3"
        service_etp: "Cluster" # Either `Cluster` or `Local`
      ...
```

## Running Uperf in VMs through kubevirt/cnv [Preview]
Note: this is currently in preview mode.


### Pre-requisites

You must have configured your k8s cluster with [Kubevirt](https://kubevirt.io) preferably v0.23.0 (last tested version).


### changes to cr file

```yaml
server_vm:
  dedicatedcpuplacement: false # cluster would need have the CPUManager feature enabled
  sockets: 1
  cores: 2
  threads: 1
  image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest # your image must've ethtool installed if enabling multiqueue
  limits:
    memory: 4Gi
  requests:
    memory: 4Gi
  network:
    front_end: bridge # or masquerade
    multiqueue:
      enabled: false # if set to true, highly recommend to set selinux to permissive on the nodes where the vms would be scheduled
      queues: 0 # must be given if enabled is set to true and ideally should be set to vcpus ideally so sockets*threads*cores, your image must've ethtool installed
  extra_options:
    - none
    #- hostpassthrough
client_vm:
  dedicatedcpuplacement: false # cluster would need have the CPUManager feature enabled
  sockets: 1
  cores: 2
  threads: 1
  image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest # your image must've ethtool installed if enabling multiqueue
  limits:
    memory: 4Gi
  requests:
    memory: 4Gi
  network:
    front_end: bridge # or masquerade
    multiqueue:
      enabled: false # if set to true, highly recommend to set selinux to permissive on the nodes where the vms would be scheduled
      queues: 0 # must be given if enabled is set to true and ideally should be set to vcpus ideally so sockets*threads*cores, your image must've ethtool installed
  extra_options:
    - none
    #- hostpassthrough
```

The above is the additional changes required to run uperf in vms.
Currently we only support images that can be used as [containerDisk](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/docs/latest/creating-virtual-machines/disks-and-volumes.html#containerdisk).

You can easily make your own container-disk-image as follows by downloading your qcow2 image of choice.
You can then make changes to your qcow2 image as needed using virt-customize.

```bash
cat << END > Dockerfile
FROM scratch
ADD <yourqcow2image>.qcow2 /disk/
END

podman build -t <imageurl> .
podman push <imageurl>
```

You can either access results by indexing them directly or by accessing the console.
The results are stored in /tmp/ directory


### Dashboard example

Using the Elasticsearch storage describe above, we can build dashboards like the below.

![UPerf Dashboard](https://i.imgur.com/gSVZ9MX.png)

To reuse the dashboard above, use the json [here](https://github.com/cloud-bulldozer/arsenal/tree/master/uperf/grafana)

Additionally, by default we will utilize the `uperf-results` index for Elasticsearch.

Commit message:

SCTP support for pod2service scenarios in uperf workloads (#734)
* SCTP support for services

* Added a test now that e2e cluster supports SCTP

* Added a pod2pod test

docs/uperf.md, after:

# Uperf

[Uperf](http://uperf.org/) is a network performance tool

## Running UPerf

Given that you followed instructions to deploy operator,
you can modify [cr.yaml](../config/samples/uperf/cr.yaml)

```yaml
apiVersion: ripsaw.cloudbulldozer.io/v1alpha1
kind: Benchmark
metadata:
  name: uperf-benchmark
  namespace: benchmark-operator
spec:
  elasticsearch:
    url: "http://es-instance.com:9200"
  workload:
    name: uperf
    args:
      client_resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
      server_resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 500Mi
      serviceip: false
      runtime_class: class_name
      hostnetwork: false
      networkpolicy: false
      pin: false
      kind: pod
      pin_server: "node-0"
      pin_client: "node-1"
      pair: 1
      multus:
        enabled: false
      samples: 1
      test_types:
        - stream
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 16384
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```

 By default, the uperf server and client pods will be preferably scheduled on different nodes, thanks to a `podAntiAffinity` rule. In scenarios with more than 1 pair, all clients and servers will be scheduled to the same node. 

`client_resources` and `server_resources` will create uperf client's and server's containers with the given k8s compute resources respectively [k8s resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/)

`serviceip` will place the uperf server behind a K8s [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)

`runtime_class` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will apply the runtime_class to the podSpec runtimeClassName.

*Note:* `runtime_class` has only been tested with Kata containers. Only include `runtime_class` if using Kata containers.

`annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the pods' metadata.

`server_annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the server pods' metadata.

`client_annotations` If this is set, the benchmark-operator will set the specified annotations on the client pods' metadata.

`hostnetwork` will test the performance of the node the pod will run on.

`networkpolicy` will create a simple networkpolicy for ingress

`pin` will allow the benchmark runner place nodes on specific nodes, using the `hostname` label.

`pin_server` what node to pin the server pod to.

`pin_client` what node to pin the client pod to.

`pair` how many instances of uperf client-server pairs. `pair` is applicable for `pin: true` only.

`protos`: choose between `tcp`, `udp` or/and `sctp`. In case `sctp` is choosen, SCTP module has to be previously loaded in the environment.

`multus[1]` Configure our pods to use multus.

`samples` how many times to run the tests. For example

[1] https://github.com/intel/multus-cni/tree/master/examples

```yaml
      samples: 3
      density_range: [1,1]
      test_types:
        - stream
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 1024
        - 16384
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```

Will run `stream` w/ `tcp` and message size `1024` three times and
`stream` w/ `tcp` and message size `16384` three times. This will help us
gain confidence in our results.

### Asymmetric Request-Response

For the request-response (rr) `test_type`, it is possible to provide the `sizes` values as a
list of two values where the first value is the write size and the second value is the read
size.

For example:
```yaml
      samples: 3
      density_range: [1,1]
      test_types:
        - rr
      protos:
        - tcp
      sizes:
        - 1024
        - [8192, 4096]
      nthrs:
        - 1
      runtime: 30
```
Will run the `rr` test with `tcp`, first with a symmectic size of `1024` and then with an
asymmetric size of `8192` write and `4096` read.

### Multus

If the user desires to test with Multus, use the below Multus `NetworkAtachmentDefinition`
as an example:

```
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: macvlan-range-0
spec:
  config: '{
            "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
            "type": "macvlan",
            "master": "eno1",
            "mode": "bridge",
            "ipam": {
                    "type": "host-local",
                    "ranges": [
                    [ {
                       "subnet": "11.10.0.0/16",
                       "rangeStart": "11.10.1.20",
                       "rangeEnd": "11.10.3.50"
                    } ] ]
            }
        }'
---
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: macvlan-range-1
spec:
  config: '{
            "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
            "type": "macvlan",
            "master": "eno1",
            "mode": "bridge",
            "ipam": {
                    "type": "host-local",
                    "ranges": [
                    [ {
                       "subnet": "11.10.0.0/16",
                       "rangeStart": "11.10.1.60",
                       "rangeEnd": "11.10.3.90"
                    } ] ]
            }
        }'
```

This will use the same IP subnet across nodes, but not overlap
IP addresses.

To enable Multus in Ripsaw, here is the relevant config.

```
      ...
      multus:
        enabled: true
        client: "macvlan-range-0"
        server: "macvlan-range-1"
      pin: true
      pin_server: "openshift-master-0.dev4.kni.lab.eng.bos.redhat.com"
      pin_client: "openshift-master-1.dev4.kni.lab.eng.bos.redhat.com"
      ...

```
### Advanced Service types

Benchmark operator now also supports different service types, it can create `NodePort` and `LoadBalancer` (only metallb) 
type services along with the current default `ClusterIP` type.

No pre-requisites needed for `NodePort` service, as long as the ports used by uperf(30000 to 30012) are allowed at the node level, 
which is the cluster default.

```
NAME                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S) 
uperf-service-np    NodePort       172.30.177.81   <none>            30000:31955/TCP,30001:31935/TCP,30002:31942/TCP,30001:31935/UDP,30002:31942/UDP
```

For `metallb` type, there are certain pre-requisites, 
1.  Installation of [MetalLB](https://metallb.universe.tf/) operator and CRD
2.  Configuration of [BGP](https://github.com/metallb/metallb-operator#create-a-bgp-peer-object)
3.  Configuration of [AddressPool](https://github.com/metallb/metallb-operator#create-an-address-pool-object) for lb service
4.  Configuration of extenal router for BGP

`metallb` type creates 2 services per benchmark CR (for each protocol, `tcp` and `udp`) and they will share the external IP like below

```
NAME                TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S) 
uperf-service-lb    LoadBalancer   172.30.177.99   192.168.216.102   30000:30976/TCP,30001:30652/TCP,30002:30099/TCP 
uperf-service-lb2   LoadBalancer   172.30.126.71   192.168.216.102   30001:31312/UDP,30002:30776/UDP 
```

#### CR file inputs

##### For NodePort
```yaml
      ...
      name: uperf
      serviceip: true
      servicetype: "nodeport"
      ...
```

##### For MetalLB
`metallb`
```yaml
      ...
      name: uperf
      serviceip: true
      servicetype: "metallb"
      metallb:
        addresspool: "addresspool-l3"
        service_etp: "Cluster" # Either `Cluster` or `Local`
      ...
```

## Running Uperf in VMs through kubevirt/cnv [Preview]
Note: this is currently in preview mode.


### Pre-requisites

You must have configured your k8s cluster with [Kubevirt](https://kubevirt.io) preferably v0.23.0 (last tested version).


### changes to cr file

```yaml
server_vm:
  dedicatedcpuplacement: false # cluster would need have the CPUManager feature enabled
  sockets: 1
  cores: 2
  threads: 1
  image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest # your image must've ethtool installed if enabling multiqueue
  limits:
    memory: 4Gi
  requests:
    memory: 4Gi
  network:
    front_end: bridge # or masquerade
    multiqueue:
      enabled: false # if set to true, highly recommend to set selinux to permissive on the nodes where the vms would be scheduled
      queues: 0 # must be given if enabled is set to true and ideally should be set to vcpus ideally so sockets*threads*cores, your image must've ethtool installed
  extra_options:
    - none
    #- hostpassthrough
client_vm:
  dedicatedcpuplacement: false # cluster would need have the CPUManager feature enabled
  sockets: 1
  cores: 2
  threads: 1
  image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:latest # your image must've ethtool installed if enabling multiqueue
  limits:
    memory: 4Gi
  requests:
    memory: 4Gi
  network:
    front_end: bridge # or masquerade
    multiqueue:
      enabled: false # if set to true, highly recommend to set selinux to permissive on the nodes where the vms would be scheduled
      queues: 0 # must be given if enabled is set to true and ideally should be set to vcpus ideally so sockets*threads*cores, your image must've ethtool installed
  extra_options:
    - none
    #- hostpassthrough
```

The above is the additional changes required to run uperf in vms.
Currently we only support images that can be used as [containerDisk](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/docs/latest/creating-virtual-machines/disks-and-volumes.html#containerdisk).

You can easily make your own container-disk-image as follows by downloading your qcow2 image of choice.
You can then make changes to your qcow2 image as needed using virt-customize.

```bash
cat << END > Dockerfile
FROM scratch
ADD <yourqcow2image>.qcow2 /disk/
END

podman build -t <imageurl> .
podman push <imageurl>
```

You can either access results by indexing them directly or by accessing the console.
The results are stored in /tmp/ directory


### Dashboard example

Using the Elasticsearch storage describe above, we can build dashboards like the below.

![UPerf Dashboard](https://i.imgur.com/gSVZ9MX.png)

To reuse the dashboard above, use the json [here](https://github.com/cloud-bulldozer/arsenal/tree/master/uperf/grafana)

Additionally, by default we will utilize the `uperf-results` index for Elasticsearch.
